# Phase III: Prototypes and User Testing

## Introduction

Indie Link aims to provide a way for indie game players to find new games and game developers to make connections with fans. This stage of development focused on creating the prototype for the site and then performing a usability test to find issues with the current design. 

## Methods
The site prototype was developed using the previously developed wireframes as a template. Color and images were added to increase the fidelity of the prototype. The higher fidelity we could make the prototype the more accurate the data would be from our user test, and the more likely we would be to find problems with the design. 

We developed a [protocol](/phaseIII/Phase_III:_Usability_Evaluation/_x17_Protocol.pdf) to follow in our test. The protocol consisted of a list of questions and tasks for the participant to complete to determine the current usability of various functions of the site. Our overall approach was to utilize a "Think Aloud" protocol to better understand the causes of usability problems as they happened. The more data we could gather about problems, the more likely it would be that we could fix them. 

The protocol began with an introduction consisting of questions to help us gain data about potential consumers and to orient our interpretation of the data from the participants. The first question "Are you a Game Developer" helps us to interpret their data from the perspective of their consumer category. The two categories of consumers we aimed to test were Players and Game Developers. If They were a Game Developer, the next question we would ask in the protocol was "How do you attract players?" This would give us data about some of the current tactics utilized by developers to gain a player base. By learning what Developers currently do, we can then find new functions the site may need and ways to structure Indie Link to better serve them. The next section of questions targets the Player's category. The question "What Kind of Games Do You Like to Play?" aims to help us gain data about possible genres of games that may need to be added to the tagging system. Our next question "Do you play any Indie Games" is another data interpretation-orienting question. It helps us know if the participant is a player who would realistically use the site. If they do play games they would then be asked "How do you usually find a new game to play?" about their Indie Game interests. This is another question meant to target new functions the site may need, this time for the Player category. The final question "How do you currently find new games to play and what do you like or dislike about those tactics?" functions similarly the the sub-question for Indie Game players, but allows the participant to give an answer referencing their discovery of mainstream titles as well. This allows us to gain data on any tactics players employ to find games that may be omitted by only asking about Indie Games. We can also compare and contrast their discovery methods to better understand how people tend to find indie games compared to mainstream titles. 

Following the introduction the protocol moves onto a series of tasks for the participant to complete with the prototype. The first task is: "Imagine you are looking for a new game to play. Look for a game in your favorite genre. If you want to play an action-heavy game, how can you find a list of games that fulfill the requirement?" This task is meant to test the usability of the search function, tagging system, and genre search function. These three functions make up the options players have to search by. By testing which functions the player chooses and discovers, we can better understand if the functions are visible and learnable. If players tend to choose one over the other, or players tend not to even find a function, then we will know its usability needs to be improved. 

The second task is to "Imagine a scenario in which you are excited about the upcoming release of a new game. This game’s developer is active on Indie Link and is posting regular updates. You have a suggestion that you want to share with the developer, is there anything on the site that achieves that functionality?" This question targets the commenting and posting functions on the site. Communication between players and game developers is a major goal of the site, so participants must be able to locate posts and figure out how to leave a comment. If they cannot find the posts then they may need to be made more visible. If they cannot figure out how to leave a comment then we may need to address some issues concerning the usability of that function. 

The final task is "Imagine you are a game developer who has just finished their newest game and wants to attract players. Try to create a page for a hypothetical game, you can use your favorite game as a stand-in." This task tests if participants can locate the Game Page creation function, if they understand how to fill out the Game Page creation form, and if they can post the page. Game discovery on the site depends on the presence of games on the site, therefore ensuring that this function is usable is a major priority. If players cannot find the game page creation function, fill it out, and post their page then these functions may need to be redesigned to ensure the site can operate. 

The protocol finishes with a debrief. This debrief aims to gain any additional data that participants may have to offer after using the prototype. Our first question "Now that you have used the site, what did you find to be the best thing about the site?" aims to find any strengths of the site. If there are any particular features and functions that participants enjoy, we want to ensure we maintain them in redesigns. Conversely, our next question "What did you find to be confusing?" aims to give participants the ability to point out weaknesses they noticed that may not be covered by the tasks, or to elaborate their frustrations with the tasks. Elaborating on these weaknesses allows us to target the aspects of the function that are not working well in our redesign. Our final question "What is the site missing?" allows participants to make suggestions for the site. Having a list of additional features that users may want from the site can be useful data for future development. We close out by asking the user if they have any other thoughts or questions, allowing one last opportunity for the participant to give us relevant site data not covered by the rest of the protocol. This question also allows us an ethical opportunity to rectify any concerns the participant may have about the test. 

## Findings

Using our protocol we ran a [study](/phaseIII/Phase_III:_Usability_Evaluation/IndieLink_UsabilityStudy.pdf) using participants from class(n = 6). After congregating the data into a spreadsheet we were able to make quite a few discoveries about Indie games as well as the prototype's usability.

Using our questions in the introduction we found that the most common tactics for finding Indie games were YouTube, word of mouth, and Steam. We also found that participants tended either not to care much about how they found games to play, or to feel that their tactics were not very effective due to how narrow the results were. 

Our first task showed that the search function was largely functional. All participants were able to find the search bar and all but one were able to utilize tagging. On the other hand, the Genre search's results were split with half of the participants locating and using the function and half not. One participant ended up using the provided "Favorites" category to find a game, and another noted that they wished there was a "Recommended" section. 

The second task showed a few problems with the commenting function. While most of the participants were able to locate commenting, the majority of them struggled to do so. One participant noted their problems seemed to stem from a lack of obvious intractability with the "Posts" section. 

The third task showed no problems with the Game Page Creation function. All participants were able to complete the task in full with no issues. 

The debrief provided extra data on participant's experiences. Results varied on what participants enjoyed but tended to show appreciation for the home page layout and community aspects of the site. Problems found with the site were a little more consistent. Participants tended to have difficulty 

## Conclusions

!!! Discoveries derived from the methods and their findings. Interpret how the findings translate into new insights into UX design recommendations. Describe those recommendations and how they should shape future work. In this section, include the new design recommendations based on the latest user insights. !!!

## Caveats

!!! Considerations and/or limitations to the methods you chose and the findings/conclusions drawn from them. In other words, give warnings if there are limitations to your research such as not being able to find enough users of a particular demographic, the methods not being able to expose certain information, assumptions you made, etc. !!!
